---
page_title: "zsphere_port_groups Data Source - zsphere"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
    Fetches a list of Port Groups and their associated attributes from the Zsphere environment.
---

# zsphere_port_groups (Data Source)

Fetches a list of Port Groups and their associated attributes from the Zsphere environment.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "zsphere_port_groups" "test" {

}

output "zstack_secs" {
  value = data.zsphere_port_groups.test
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `filter` (Block List) Filter resources based on any field in the schema. For example, to filter by status, use `name = "status"` and `values = ["Ready"]`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--filter))
- `name` (String) Exact name for searching Port Groups.
- `name_pattern` (String) Pattern for fuzzy name search, similar to MySQL LIKE. Use % for multiple characters and _ for exactly one character.

### Read-Only

- `port_groups` (Attributes List) List of L3 networks matching the specified filters. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--port_groups))

<a id="nestedblock--filter"></a>
### Nested Schema for `filter`

Required:

- `name` (String) Name of the field to filter by (e.g., status, state).
- `values` (Set of String) Values to filter by. Multiple values will be treated as an OR condition.


<a id="nestedatt--port_groups"></a>
### Nested Schema for `port_groups`

Read-Only:

- `category` (String) Category of the L3 network.
- `dns` (Attributes List) List of DNS servers for the L3 network. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--port_groups--dns))
- `free_ips` (Attributes List) List of free IPs available in the L3 network. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--port_groups--free_ips))
- `ip_range` (Attributes List) List of IP ranges in the L3 network. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--port_groups--ip_range))
- `name` (String) Name of the L3 network
- `uuid` (String) UUID of the L3 network.

<a id="nestedatt--port_groups--dns"></a>
### Nested Schema for `port_groups.dns`

Read-Only:

- `dns_model` (String) DNS server address.


<a id="nestedatt--port_groups--free_ips"></a>
### Nested Schema for `port_groups.free_ips`

Read-Only:

- `gateway` (String) Gateway for the free IP.
- `ip` (String) Free IP address.
- `ip_range_uuid` (String) UUID of the IP range containing the free IP.
- `netmask` (String) Netmask for the free IP.


<a id="nestedatt--port_groups--ip_range"></a>
### Nested Schema for `port_groups.ip_range`

Read-Only:

- `cidr` (String) CIDR notation for the IP range.
- `end_ip` (String) Ending IP address in the range.
- `gateway` (String) Gateway for the IP range.
- `ip_range_name` (String) Name of the IP range.
- `netmask` (String) Netmask of the IP range.
- `start_ip` (String) Starting IP address in the range.




